Beaconhouse National University (BNU) is a private liberal arts university located in Lahore, in the province of Punjab, Pakistan.[1][2]

Founding year:
Founded in 2003 by its parent company Beaconhouse School System, it is located at Raiwind, a subdivision of Lahore District; the BNU campus is adjacent to the Bahria Town.[3]

BNU offers study programmes in visual design and arts, architecture, liberal arts, computer information technology, psychology and mass communication. It is a member of the Higher Education Commission and the Association of Commonwealth Universities.[4][1]

Beaconhouse National University also organises Pakistan's largest university level festival, commonly known as 'Bestival'.

Schools and departments
Mariam Dawood School of Visual Arts & Design
The School of Visual Arts & Design (SVAD) is the oldest school at BNU and consists of seven departments.

The Department of Fine Art offers an undergraduate program of BFA (Bachelor of Fine Arts) in Visual Arts.
The Department of Jewelry & Accessory Design offers an undergraduate program of B.Des (Bachelor of Design) in Jewelry & Accessory Design.
The Department of Photography offers an undergraduate program of BFA (Bachelor of Fine Arts) in Photography.
The Department of Textile Design, Fibre & Fashion Studies offers two undergraduate programs leading to a B.Des (Bachelor of Design) in Textile & Fibre Studies or a B.Des (Bachelor of Design) in Fashion & Fibre Studies.
The Department of Visual Communication Design offers an undergraduate program of BFA (Bachelor of Fine Arts) in Visual Communication Design.
The Department of Art History & Critical Studies offers an undergraduate program of BA (Hons) Double Major in Fine Arts and History of Art.
The Centre For Art & Design Education & Research offers two postgraduate programs leading to a MA (Masters) in Art & Design Studies and a MA (Masters) in Art Education.
Razia Hassan School of Architecture
The Razia Hassan School of Architecture (SA) led by Dean Dr. Gulzar haider began in 2004. It offers a five-year undergraduate program leading to a B.Arch. (Bachelor of Architecture) degree and a two-year postgraduate program leading to a M. Arch. (Master of Architecture) degree.

School of Media and Mass Communication
The School of Media and Mass Communication (SMC) consists of the Department of Theatre, Film & Television and the Department of Journalism.

The Department of Theatre, Film & Television offers a BA (Hons) in Social Sciences with major in Theatre, Film & TV Studies
The Department of Journalism offers one undergraduate program and three postgraduate programs. BA (Hons) in Social Sciences with major in Media Studies, MA in Mass Communication, MS Public Relations & Advertising and M. Phil Mass Communication.
Seeta Majeed School of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences (SLASS)
The Seeta Majeed School of Liberal Arts & Social Sciences (SLASS), consists of the Department of Liberal Arts and the Department of Economics.

The Department of Liberal Arts offers an undergraduate program leading to a BA (Hons) in Social Sciences with major in Liberal Studies.
The Department of Economics offers two undergraduate programs leading to a B.Sc (Hons) in Banking and Finance and a B.Sc (Hons) in Economics.
School of Computer & Information Technology (SCIT)
School of Computer & Information Technology (SCIT) offers three undergraduate programs leading to a BSc (Hons) in Management and Business Computing, BSc (Hons) in Finance and Business Computing and BSc (Hons) in Software Engineering as well as a postgraduate program leading to a MS in Business Information Technology.

Institute of Psychology (IP)
The Institute of Psychology was established in 2004 and offers one undergraduate, one doctorate and six postgraduate programs.

Undergraduate:
B.Sc (Hons) in Applied Psychology.
Postgraduate:
M.Sc in Counseling Psychology
M.Sc in School and Educational Psychology
M.Sc in Clinical Psychology
M.Sc in Organizational and Business Psychology
MS Clinical and Counseling Psychology
M. Phil Applied Psychology
Doctorate:
The Institute of Psychology offers a PHD Program with specialization in the following areas of psychology:

Clinical Psychology
Counseling Psychology
Industrial/Organizational Psychology
School and Educational Psychology
Health Psychology
Developmental Psychology
School of Education
The School of Education (SE) was established in 2005 and it offers four postgraduate programs leading to M. Phil in Education, M. Phil in Educational Leadership and Management, M. Phil in Teaching English as a Second Language and M. Phil in Linguistics.

Faculty
BNU has a 92 full-time and 150 adjunct faculty members including:

Nayyar Ali Dada, Pakistan's eminent architect.[5]
Tariq Rahman, Dean of School of Liberal Arts and Social Sciences in 2017 (an eminent Pakistani academic, columnist and intellectual, known for his work in the field of linguistics).[6][7]
Asghar Nadeem Syed, Visiting Faculty at department of Theatre, Film and Television. He is a well-known playwright, columnist, intellectual and author of Pakistan. [8][9]
Rashid Rana, School of Visual Arts and Design, one of Pakistan's most prominent artists. [10][11]
Societies
BNU has student-driven societies, clubs and associations that work under the tutelage of the student affairs office. Societies and clubs at BNU include:

The Maya Tree
Student Association for Human Rights and Social Change
Sports Department
Music Society
Photographic Society
Dramatics Society (BeaDS)
Adventure Society
Character Building Society
Debating Society
Media Club
Model United Nations (BNUMUN)
Plan9 Entrepreneurial Society (BP9)
Volunteer Society (BVS)
Performing Arts Society (Char Gram)
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) BNU Student Branch
Table Tennis Society
Flash Mob Society